
## Chapter 01 | Atoms and the void

### Democritus

* <i>I would rather discover a single cause than become king of the Persians ~ Democritus</i>

* According to Democritus, properties like color and taste are not intrinsic to atoms, but they emerge out of interactions of many atoms! (in 400 B.C)

* Atomists and Anti-Atomists: whether space and time are themselves made of atoms?

* By convention there's sweetness,<br/>
  by convention there's bitterness,<br/>
  by convention color, in reality<br/>
  only atoms and the void.
  
* Most surprising discovery of the 20th century
  - Quantum Mechanics
  - Relativity
  - <theory-intellect-senses>
  
### Quantum Mechanics

* QM describes the evolution in time of the state of regions in the universe
  - represented as a linear combination (<i>superposition</i>)

* Should the universe split into two branches, considering you are both here and there?

* Measurement - the act of looking at a particle, forces to make up its mind, about where it wants to be, <i>probabilistically</i>

* Interpretation - quantum system, measuring device, and there's a line between the two
  - a quantum state is just a representation of your knowledge - and you, by definition, is a classical being!
  
* Types:
  1. Copenhagen interpretation, and its Bayesian and epistemic grandchildren
  2. Many-worlds, Bohmian mechanics etc.

* David Deutsch - there're experiments which could differentiate first type of interpretation from the second

* Coherent superposition

* Philosophers sit in their armchairs, waiting for something surprising to happen in science - like QM, Bell Inequality, Godel's theorem - and then swoop in like vultures and say, ah, this is what it really meant.

* Shut up and calculate
  - capacities of quantum channels
  - error probabilities of quantum algorithms

<hr/>


### Questions

a) Could space and time be made of atoms? Could they be made of nothing at all?!

b) If the universe splits into multiple ones probabilistically then is it not in our control to make certain events not happen at all?
  - If I do not decide to toss a coin, then there'll be two universes, one where the coin is not tossed and the one where it is.

c) Summarize Copenhagen Interpretation

d) What is coherent superposition?

e) What is philosophy's contribution to science?

